We're gonna talk about template driven
forms somebody did ask are we going to
talk about reactive forms?
This is where I think I
tend to diverge against
at least what is on the Angular website.
In my opinion, in most cases reactive
forms actually is an over
engineered solution for
a problem that in most cases should be
solved with a template driven form.
This is probably one of the few things
that I actually agree with ward bell on.
That everything that you can do
in reactive forms, believe it or
not, you can do in template
driven forms in a lot less code,
and it is a lot more simple.
Word actually gives a pretty
good talk at mg comp 2020.
That you can check out, but
in my opinion that unless you're
using something like formally.
That what you get with reactive forms, for
what you have to do to make that work and
how verbose it is.
That I have a hard time
justifying that value,
especially when I am isolating my
mutations into single components.
So, the difference is I will
say this is that when you have
a template driven form,
I can bind it to a data object directly.
When I have a reactive form,
what I have to do is I
have to pull out the form controller,
which exists in template driven forms.
And I have to essentially piece in
every single property, one at a time.
And for basic simple forms,
that to me just does not make sense.
So I'm not going to talk
about reactive forms
other than I think people
adopt them because
this is what the angular
website says to do.
But my experience is that for
what most people are trying to accomplish.
It is a layer of complexity and
overhead that can be solved by just
isolating your forms into
standalone components.
And believe it or not,
they are built on top of essentially
the same underlying forms module.
So, it's like they took something
that worked really well.
The forms module, and they just
attached or added in a bunch of I
think complexity on top of that,
and then you have reactive forms.
And I do think there's use cases for
it, but in most cases, everything that
I would use reactive forms for,
I can already do in template driven forms.
So with that said,
if you're going to use forms or
even reactive forms,
you need to import the forms module.
So, this is, I've been bitten by
this a few times where I'm like,
I don't understand why
my form's not working.
Or if you see something like ngModel
is not recognized, the reason why that
is probably happening is because you
have failed to import your forms module.
So the big kind of piece
of any form is ngModel.
So this enables a two way data binding.
And what this does is this
creates a form control instance
from a domain model and
then it binds that to the form elements.
So one thing that's interesting about
forms is that when you have a form,
there's a couple things
that are happening.
So you have the data portion of the form,
and then you have the state of the form.
For instance,
is this form in a valid state?
Yes or no why is it in a valid state or
not in a valid state and
so under the hood what Angular
does is that they attach a form
control even nested form
controls to these elements that.
Essentially maps, the domain model or
the data to that element,
and then also keeps track whether or
not it is valid.
And we can create a local
variable reference to inside
of ngModel to see this.
Typically, I don't do this at the ngModel
level, but I do do it that the form level.
So, here using ngModel that I can
create a reference called name ref.
If I wanted to see it and point this
to ngModel, I rarely ever do this.
Instead, what I do is I use
the top level form control,
which is bound to like when
it detects a form element.
It also tracks or
attaches not ngMdel but ngControl.
So ngModel attaches
the FormControl to the element.
ngControl is the top level FormControl
that tracks again value and
validation and
then you can also reference this.
One thing you can do,
I'm not gonna do this here, but
you can actually group these
together using ngModelGroups.
So for instance, if you had a form
that had like a username or
you know user information
plus like an address,
you could actually segment those into
FormGroups, which is a possibility.
So, in this case we are referencing
ngForm using dollar form ref,
and this will keep track
of the entire form.
So what this allows us to do
is we can dump this out by
tracking the value and
the valid properties on this.
And I mentioned ngModelGroup
that we can kind of group
pieces of the form together to create kind
of like a substructure if we wanted to.
So what this would look like is you'll see
here that I'm creating an ngModelGroup of
user and then I'm able to nest the first
name and the last name into that.
And one other piece here that
I'll discuss is that Angular
not only does it attach
automatically a form control,
but it also attaches validation styles.
So If a form is valid,
then you have an entry valid style.
If it's not entry invalid, so
also you have pristine and
untouched which is like if
somebody hasn't touched a form.
You might want to track that like hey,
you need to fill this out, etc.
And so this is where you can do
like ngInvalid and valid and
with Angular material they kind
of style this for you, but
if you wanted to override this you could.